---
title: "GPO - Installazione Software - OpenOffice e JRE"
tags: "post"
htmlClass: "html"
bodyClass: "body"
date: "2007-03-21"
permalink: "gpo-group-policy-installazione-software-openoffice-e-jre/"
layout: "template_posts_md"
icon:
  - win
---
<p>GPO - Group Policy - Installazione Software</p>
<p>    OpenOffice e JRE</p>
<p>thanks to<br /><a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/OpenOffice-Enterprise/Desktop_Installation">http://openofficetechnology.com/OpenOffice-Enterprise/Desktop_Installation</a></p>
<p>    Desktop Software Installation</p>
<p>These instructions describe the steps needed to perform a network <br />installation of the OpenOffice.org office suite and the <br />OpenOffice-Enterprise client software using Windows Group Policy.</p>
<p>These instructions are copyright Open Office Technology. They may be <br />linked to but not copied. Their permanent location is</p>
<p><a href="http://OpenOfficeTechnology.com/OpenOffice-Enterprise/Desktop_Installation">http://OpenOfficeTechnology.com/OpenOffice-Enterprise/Desktop_Installation</a></p>
<p>&lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/OpenOffice-Enterprise/Desktop_Installation">http://openofficetechnology.com/OpenOffice-Enterprise/Desktop_Installation</a>&gt;</p>
<p>    * Overview &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/node/24">http://openofficetechnology.com/node/24</a>&gt;<br />    * Package Installation Order &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/node/30">http://openofficetechnology.com/node/30</a>&gt;<br />    * Step 1 – Download Software Packages<br />      &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/node/25">http://openofficetechnology.com/node/25</a>&gt;<br />    * Step 2 – Create Network Installation Images<br />      &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/node/26">http://openofficetechnology.com/node/26</a>&gt;<br />    * Step 3 – Create Installation Group Policy Object<br />      &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/node/27">http://openofficetechnology.com/node/27</a>&gt;<br />    * Step 4 – Set Policy Scope and Link to Domain<br />      &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/node/28">http://openofficetechnology.com/node/28</a>&gt;<br />    * Upgrading OpenOffice-Enterprise<br />      &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/OpenOffice-Enterprise/Desktop_Installation/Upgrading_OpenOffice-Enterprise">http://openofficetechnology.com/OpenOffice-Enterprise/Desktop_Installation/Upgrading_OpenOffice-Enterprise</a>&gt;<br />    * Upgrading OpenOffice<br />      &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/OpenOffice-Enterprise/Desktop_Installation/Upgrading_OpenOffice">http://openofficetechnology.com/OpenOffice-Enterprise/Desktop_Installation/Upgrading_OpenOffice</a>&gt;<br />    * Installation Troubleshooting &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/node/29">http://openofficetechnology.com/node/29</a>&gt;</p>
<p>    Overview</p>
<p>The three software packages discussed in these instructions are:</p>
<p>   1. The OpenOffice.org office suite. Installation of this package on<br />      each client is required.<br />   2. The OpenOffice-Enterprise client software. Provides Group Policy<br />      management for the OpenOffice.org office suite. Installation of<br />      this package on each managed client is required.<br />   3. Sun&#39;s Java runtime environment (JRE). Certain functions in the<br />      OpenOffice suite depend on the Java runtime, such as the database<br />      application, mail merge and the document wizards in Writer. (For a<br />      more complete list, see Java and OpenOffice.org<br />      &lt;<a href="http://wiki.services.openoffice.org/wiki/Java_and_OpenOffice.org#OpenOffice.org_2.0_Functionality_depending_on_Java">http://wiki.services.openoffice.org/wiki/Java_and_OpenOffice.org#OpenOffice.org_2.0_Functionality_depending_on_Java</a>&gt;).<br />      If these features are not required, the JRE does not need to be<br />      installed. Full functionality requires the JRE or JDK version<br />      1.4.0_02 or newer, or version 1.4.1_01 or newer. Limited<br />      functionality is available with version 1.3.1 or higher. (Source:    </p>
<p><a href="http://www.openoffice.org/dev_docs/source/sys_reqs_20.html">http://www.openoffice.org/dev_docs/source/sys_reqs_20.html</a>)</p>
<p>These instructions describe the installation procedure using the most <br />recent application versions as of the date these instructions were <br />written. The OpenOffice suite and Java JRE are not distributed by Open <br />Office Technology, and the information related to these packages may <br />change from time to time. If you find any discrepancies in these <br />instructions, please let us know &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/contact">http://openofficetechnology.com/contact</a>&gt;.</p>
<p>    Package Installation Order</p>
<p>The three packages must be installed in the following order:</p>
<p>   1. Optionally, if required, the Java JRE.<br />   2. The OpenOffice.org office suite.<br />   3. The OpenOffice-Enterprise client software.</p>
<p>The installation of one or more of these packages can be combined into a <br />single Group Policy operation.</p>
<p>These instructions describe the process of installing all three packages <br />in one operation. If one or more are already installed, simply skip the <br />corresponding steps. To install one or more of the packages separately, <br />create separate Group Policy objects these packages.</p>
<p>    Step 1 – Download Software Packages</p>
<p>The first step in the installation process is to download the software <br />packages.</p>
<p>A. Optionally, download the Java JRE *offline* installation package for <br />Windows. As of the date of these instructions:</p>
<p>    * Most recent version of the JRE: Version 6.0<br />    * Installation package file name: jre-6-windows-i586.exe<br />    * Download location: <a href="http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/">http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/</a></p>
<p>     (Click to download &quot;Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 6&quot;, click to<br />      accept license agreement, then click on &quot;Windows Offline<br />      Installation, Multi-language&quot;)<br />    * Other versions: <a href="http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/previous.jsp">http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/previous.jsp</a></p>
<p>B. If OpenOffice is not already installed on the client machines, <br />download the OpenOffice installer for Windows without the JRE bundled. <br />As of the date of these instructions:</p>
<p>    * Most recent version of the OpenOffice suite: Version 2.1<br />    * Installation package file name: OOo_2.1.0_Win32Intel_install_en-US.exe<br />    * Download location: <a href="http://download.openoffice.org/">http://download.openoffice.org/</a></p>
<p>   * Other versions at: <a href="http://distribution.openoffice.org/mirrors/">http://distribution.openoffice.org/mirrors/</a></p>
<p>     &lt;<a href="http://distribution.openoffice.org/mirrors/index.html#mirrors">http://distribution.openoffice.org/mirrors/index.html#mirrors</a>&gt;</p>
<p>C. Download the OpenOffice-Enterprise client software installer. As of <br />the date of these instructions:</p>
<p>    * Most recent version of OpenOffice-Enterprise client software:<br />      Build 450<br />    * Corresponding package file name: ooewin-450.msi<br />    * Download location: <a href="http://OpenOfficeTechnology.com/download">http://OpenOfficeTechnology.com/download</a></p>
<p>     &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/download">http://openofficetechnology.com/download</a>&gt;</p>
<p>    Step 2 – Create Network Installation Images</p>
<p>The next step is to create network installation images for each of the <br />software packages. This places the installation images on a network file <br />server that is accessible to the client computers. To complete this <br />process, you must have write access to this location. The client <br />computer should have read-only access.</p>
<p>A. Extract the Java JRE msi file:</p>
<p>   1. Run the JRE installation executable file, jre-6-windows-i586.exe.<br />      The License Agreement screen will appear. Do not click either<br />      &quot;Decline&quot; or &quot;Accept&quot;.<br />   2. The installer executable will have placed a file called<br />      &quot;jre1.6.0.msi&quot; into the directory &quot;C:\Documents and Settings\&lt;your<br />      username&gt;\Application Data\Sun\Java\jre1.6.0&quot;. Copy the .msi file<br />      to a network installation point, which is a location on the<br />      network accessible to the client computers, such as<br />      |<br />      \\fileserver\net_install_images\jre-1_6_0\<br />      |<br />      Note 1: Earlier versions of JRE installation executable placed the<br />      .msi file into a subdirectory such as &quot;C:\Documents and<br />      Settings\&lt;your username&gt;\Local Settings\Application<br />      Data\{XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX}&quot;, where the name of<br />      the subdirectory depends on the JRE version. The .msi file<br />      corresponding to the JRE version can be located by looking in all<br />      subdirectories with names matching this pattern.<br />      Note 2: Neither the Java installer executable nor the .msi file<br />      support the &quot;/a&quot; administrative installation option.<br />   3. Returning to the License Agreement screen, click &quot;Decline&quot;. The<br />      installer will delete the Application Data\Sun\Java directory and<br />      its .msi file, then terminate.</p>
<p>B. Perform an administrative installation of the OpenOffice suite:</p>
<p>   1. Run the OpenOffice installer,<br />      OOo_2.1.0_Win32Intel_install_en-US.exe, with no parameters.<br />   2. When prompted, enter a location to unpack the installation files,<br />      such as a subdirectory called Ooo_installer_files in your current<br />      working directory.<br />   3. When the next stage of the installer runs (&quot;Welcome to the<br />      Installation Wizard for OpenOffice.org 2.1&quot;), click &quot;Cancel&quot; and<br />      abort the installation.<br />   4. The OpenOffice installer should have unpacked several executable<br />      and data files into the directory you selected. From the command<br />      prompt, launch the setup file using the following command line:<br />      |<br />      setup /a<br />      |<br />      When prompted, enter a network installation point such as<br />      |<br />      \\fileserver\net_install_images\OpenOffice-2.1\<br />      |<br />      and then click &quot;Install&quot;. The installer will create the directory<br />      you specified, if it doesn&#39;t already exist, and then unpack the<br />      file &quot;openofficeorg21.msi&quot; along with a handful of subdirectories<br />      into this location.</p>
<p>C. Perform an administrative installation of the OpenOffice-Enterprise <br />client software:</p>
<p>   1.  From the command prompt, launch the installer file using the<br />      following command line:<br />      |<br />      msiexec /a ooewin-450.msi<br />      |<br />      When prompted, enter a network installation point such as<br />      |<br />      \\fileserver\net_install_images\ooewin-450\<br />      |<br />      and then click &quot;Next&quot; twice. The installer will copy the .msi file<br />      to this folder and unpack several files and one subdirectory.</p>
<p>Before continuing, ensure that the client computers have read-only <br />access to the network installation points that you used above.</p>
<p><p>    Step 3 – Create Installation Group Policy Object</p>
<p>This step creates a Group Policy Object or &quot;GPO&quot; that will install the <br />software packages.</p>
<p>   1. Launch the Group Policy Management console on your administrative<br />      workstation. Expand the tree for your domain, then right-click on<br />      &quot;Group Policy Objects&quot; and select &quot;New&quot;. Enter a name such as<br />      &quot;OpenOffice-Enterprise Installation&quot;. Your new Group Policy Object<br />      will appear in the tree under &quot;Group Policy Objects&quot;. Right-click<br />      on its name and select &quot;Edit&#8230;&quot;. This will open the Group Policy<br />      Object Editor.<br />   2. In the Group Policy Object Editor, under &quot;Computer Configuration&quot;,<br />      expand &quot;Software Settings&quot;, right-click on &quot;Software Installation&quot;<br />      and select &quot;New -&gt; Package&#8230;&quot;.<br />   3. Click on &quot;My Network Places&quot;. (Note: This is a required step. You<br />      must select the package to install from a network location rather<br />      than a local location. If you do not first click on &quot;My Network<br />      Places&quot;, the selection of a package to install will not be accepted.)<br />   4. Navigate to the network location where you placed the Java JRE<br />      install file &quot;jre1.6.0.msi&quot; and double-click on this file. If you<br />      are not installing Java, skip this step and move down to the first<br />      package you are installing.<br />   5. For the deployment method, select &quot;Assigned&quot;. The JRE install file<br />      should appear in the view pane.<br />   6. Right-click on &quot;Software Installation&quot; and select &quot;New -&gt;<br />      Package&#8230;&quot; again.<br />   7. Navigate to the network location containing your OpenOffice suite<br />      administrative install, and double-click on the .msi file<br />      &quot;openofficeorg21.msi&quot;.<br />   8. Several installation transform files are available here<br />      &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/OpenOffice_Installation_Transforms">http://openofficetechnology.com/OpenOffice_Installation_Transforms</a>&gt;.<br />      If you do not want to use any transforms, select &quot;Assigned&quot; as the<br />      deployment method and click &quot;OK&quot;. The install file for OpenOffice<br />      should appear in the view pane. Otherwise, to install OpenOffice<br />      with one or more transforms, download the transform (.mst) files<br />      and add them to the directory that contains the OpenOffice<br />      installation file openofficeorg21.msi. Then for &quot;Deployment<br />      Method&quot; select &quot;Advanced&quot; and click &quot;OK&quot;. After a short pause, the<br />      Properties dialog should appear. Under the &quot;Modifications&quot; tab,<br />      add the transform file you wish to apply, then click &quot;OK&quot;.<br />   9. Right-click on &quot;Software Installation&quot; and select &quot;New -&gt;<br />      Package&#8230;&quot; again.<br />  10. Navigate to the network location containing your<br />      OpenOffice-Enterprise administrative install, and double-click on<br />      the .msi file &quot;ooewin-450.msi&quot;. For the deployment method, select<br />      &quot;Assigned&quot;. The OpenOffice-Enterprise install file should appear<br />      in the view pane.</p>
<p>      IMPORTANT: You must add the .msi files in the indicated order:<br />      Java JRE, then OpenOffice.org suite, then OpenOffice-Enterprise.<br />      The packages will appear in the view pane in alphabetical order,<br />      but they will be installed in the order they were selected. The<br />      indicated installation order is mandatory in order for all three<br />      packages to be installed successfully.</p>
<p>  11. To set additional options, double-click on each package name in<br />      the view pane. For example, selecting &quot;Uninstall this application<br />      when it falls out of the scope of management&quot; will cause the<br />      applications to be automatically uninstalled if this group policy<br />      object is deleted or unlinked. (Alternately, the software can be<br />      uninstalled later by right-clicking on each package name and<br />      selecting &quot;All Tasks&quot; -&gt; &quot;Remove&#8230;&quot;). Any options selected must<br />      be set for each package individually, so be certain to<br />      double-click on each package name in succession and set the<br />      desired options.<br />  12. When done, double check your selections and close the Group Policy<br />      Object Editor.</p>
<p>    Step 4 – Set Policy Scope and Link to Domain</p>
<p>This final step selects the computers on which the software will be <br />installed. This involves designating a group or list of computers, along <br />with one or more domains or organizational units. The software will be <br />installed on a computer if it is both in the group that you designated <br />/and/ in one of the domains or organizational units you select.</p>
<p>The default is to &quot;assign&quot; the installation to all users which will <br />ultimately cause the software to be installed on all computers in the <br />selected domains, including servers and domain controllers. This is <br />probably not what you want.</p>
<p>A typical configuration will only install this software on desktop <br />workstations, not on domain controllers. Here are instructions to <br />accomplish this:</p>
<p>   1. Back in the Group Policy Management console, click on the name of<br />      your Group Policy Object (e.g., &quot;OpenOffice-Enterprise<br />      Installation&quot; or whatever name you previously chose). In the pane<br />      on the right, under &quot;Security Filtering&quot; in the &quot;Scope&quot; tab,<br />      select &quot;Authenticated Users&quot; and click on &quot;Remove&quot;.<br />   2. Click &quot;Add&#8230;&quot;, and in the dialog box that appears, under &quot;Enter<br />      the object name to select&quot;, type &quot;domain computers&quot; and click OK.<br />      &quot;Domain Computers&quot; refers to all workstations in your domain; it<br />      does not include domain controllers. It may however include<br />      servers, so you should check the members of this group. In the<br />      Group Policy Management view pane, click on the word &quot;Domain<br />      Computers&quot;, then click &quot;Properties&quot;. In the Properties dialog,<br />      select the &quot;Members&quot; tab. This brings up a list of the computers<br />      in the &quot;Domain Computers&quot; group. If this group includes more<br />      computers than desired, you can &quot;Remove&quot; this group and then<br />      &quot;Add&#8230;&quot; computers individually, or you can create a custom group<br />      using Active Directory Users and Computers. You can also select<br />      computers using WMI filters, but this is beyond the scope of this<br />      document.<br />   3. When you are finished selecting computers, click on the name of<br />      your Group Policy Object in the tree view again, and without<br />      releasing the mouse button, drag the pointer to the name of the<br />      domain or organization unit in which to install the software. The<br />      pointer will change shape to a pointer with a &quot;+&quot;. Release the<br />      mouse button and click OK to link your Group Policy Object to this<br />      domain. Repeat this process for any additional domains or<br />      organizational units.</p>
<p>The Group Policy Object will begin to propagate and will be applied on <br />each selected computer in the domain(s) within approx. 90 minutes <br />(depending on how Group Policy is configured). To apply the GPO <br />immediately on a particular computer, go to that computer and run <br />&quot;gpupdate&quot; from a command prompt. Once the Group Policy Object is <br />applied, the software will be installed the next time the computer is <br />rebooted. The installation process will take several minutes.</p>
<p>    Upgrading OpenOffice-Enterprise</p>
<p>The following instructions describe how to upgrade an existing Group <br />Policy installation to a new version of the OpenOffice-Enterprise client <br />software.</p>
<p>   1. Download the new release of the OpenOffice-Enterprise client<br />      software, as described in Step C of Download Software Packages<br />      &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/node/25">http://openofficetechnology.com/node/25</a>&gt;.<br />   2. Perform an administrative installation of the new release, as<br />      described in Step C of Create Network Installation Images<br />      &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/node/26">http://openofficetechnology.com/node/26</a>&gt;. CAUTION: Do not<br />      overwrite the previous version; install the new release in a<br />      different directory. Do not delete the previous version until you<br />      are certain all desktops have been upgraded.<br />   3. Launch the Group Policy Management console on your administrative<br />      workstation. Expand the tree for your domain, then expand the tree<br />      for &quot;Group Policy Objects&quot;. Right-click on the Group Policy Object<br />      used to install the previous version of OpenOffice, then select<br />      &quot;Edit&#8230;&quot;. This will open the Group Policy Object Editor.<br />   4. In the Group Policy Object Editor, under &quot;Computer Configuration&quot;,<br />      expand &quot;Software Settings&quot;, right-click on &quot;Software Installation&quot;<br />      and select &quot;New -&gt; Package&#8230;&quot;.<br />   5. Click on &quot;My Network Places&quot;. (Note: This is a required step. You<br />      must select the package to install from a network location rather<br />      than a local location. If you do not first click on &quot;My Network<br />      Places&quot;, the selection of a package to install will not be accepted.)<br />   6. Navigate to the network location containing the administrative<br />      installation of the new version of the OpenOffice-Enterprise<br />      client software and and double-click on the .msi file<br />      &quot;ooewin-450.msi&quot;.<br />   7. Select &quot;Advanced&quot; as the deployment method and click &quot;OK&quot;. After a<br />      short pause, the Properties dialog should appear.<br />   8. Under the &quot;Upgrade&quot; tab, click &quot;Add&#8230;&quot; and under &quot;Package to<br />      upgrade&quot;, select &quot;OpenOffice-Enterprise&quot; and click &quot;OK&quot;. The<br />      properties dialog will display the text &quot;Replace<br />      OpenOffice-Enterprise&quot;.<br />   9. The option &quot;Uninstall this application when it falls out of the<br />      scope of management&quot; can be set under the &quot;Deployment&quot; tab. This<br />      option will cause the application to be automatically uninstalled<br />      if this group policy object is deleted or unlinked. Alternately,<br />      the application can be uninstalled later by right-clicking on its<br />      package name and selecting &quot;All Tasks&quot; -&gt; &quot;Remove&#8230;&quot;<br />  10. When all of the installation properties look correct, click &quot;OK&quot;<br />      to accept the properties, then close the Group Policy Object Editor.</p>
<p>The Group Policy Object will begin to propagate and will be applied on <br />each selected computer in the domain(s) within approx. 90 minutes <br />(depending on how Group Policy is configured). To apply the GPO <br />immediately on a particular computer, go to that computer and run <br />&quot;gpupdate&quot; from a command prompt. Once the Group Policy Object is <br />applied, the new version of the OpenOffice-Enterprise client software <br />will be installed the next time the computer is rebooted. The <br />installation process will take only a few seconds.</p>
<p>    Upgrading OpenOffice</p>
<p>The following instructions describe how to upgrade an existing Group <br />Policy installation to a new version of the OpenOffice.org office suite.</p>
<p>IMPORTANT: If you are upgrading to the latest v2.1 release of <br />OpenOffice, you must first upgrade to the latest release of the <br />OpenOffice-Enterprise client software, ooewin-450.msi. Prior releases of <br />the OpenOffice-Enterprise client software are not compatible with <br />OpenOffice v2.1.</p>
<p>   1. Download the new release of OpenOffice, as described in Step B of<br />      Download Software Packages &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/node/25">http://openofficetechnology.com/node/25</a>&gt;.<br />   2. Perform an administrative installation of the new release, as<br />      described in Step B of Create Network Installation Images<br />      &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/node/26">http://openofficetechnology.com/node/26</a>&gt;. CAUTION: Do not<br />      overwrite the previous version; install the new release in a<br />      different directory. Do not delete the previous version until you<br />      are certain all desktops have been upgraded.<br />   3. Download the file Check_OOE.mst<br />      &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/system/files?file=Check_OOE.mst">http://openofficetechnology.com/system/files?file=Check_OOE.mst</a>&gt;<br />      and add it to the network installation directory.<br />   4. Download any additional installation transform (.mst) files<br />      &lt;<a href="http://openofficetechnology.com/OpenOffice_Installation_Transforms">http://openofficetechnology.com/OpenOffice_Installation_Transforms</a>&gt;<br />      you would like to use, and add them to the network installation<br />      directory.<br />   5. Launch the Group Policy Management console on your administrative<br />      workstation. Expand the tree for your domain, then expand the tree<br />      for &quot;Group Policy Objects&quot;. Right-click on the Group Policy Object<br />      used to install the previous version of OpenOffice, then select<br />      &quot;Edit&#8230;&quot;. This will open the Group Policy Object Editor.<br />   6. In the Group Policy Object Editor, under &quot;Computer Configuration&quot;,<br />      expand &quot;Software Settings&quot;, right-click on &quot;Software Installation&quot;<br />      and select &quot;New -&gt; Package&#8230;&quot;.<br />   7. Click on &quot;My Network Places&quot;. (Note: This is a required step. You<br />      must select the package to install from a network location rather<br />      than a local location. If you do not first click on &quot;My Network<br />      Places&quot;, the selection of a package to install will not be accepted.)<br />   8. Navigate to the network location containing the administrative<br />      installation of the new version of OpenOffice and and double-click<br />      on the .msi file &quot;openofficeorg21.msi&quot;.<br />   9. Select &quot;Advanced&quot; as the deployment method and click &quot;OK&quot;. After a<br />      short pause, the Properties dialog should appear.<br />  10. Under the &quot;Upgrade&quot; tab, click &quot;Add&#8230;&quot; and under &quot;Package to<br />      upgrade&quot;, select &quot;OpenOffice.org 2.0&quot; and click &quot;OK&quot;. The<br />      properties dialog will display the text &quot;Replace OpenOffice.org 2.0&quot;.<br />  11. Under the &quot;Modifications&quot; tab, add Check_OOE.mst and the other<br />      transforms you downloaded earlier (if any), then click &quot;OK&quot;. The<br />      selected transforms will appear in the properties dialog.<br />  12. The option &quot;Uninstall this application when it falls out of the<br />      scope of management&quot; can be set under the &quot;Deployment&quot; tab. This<br />      option will cause the application to be automatically uninstalled<br />      if this group policy object is deleted or unlinked. Alternately,<br />      the application can be uninstalled later by right-clicking on its<br />      package name and selecting &quot;All Tasks&quot; -&gt; &quot;Remove&#8230;&quot;<br />  13. When all of the installation properties look correct, click &quot;OK&quot;<br />      to accept the properties, then close the Group Policy Object Editor.</p>
<p>The Group Policy Object will begin to propagate and will be applied on <br />each selected computer in the domain(s) within approx. 90 minutes <br />(depending on how Group Policy is configured). To apply the GPO <br />immediately on a particular computer, go to that computer and run <br />&quot;gpupdate&quot; from a command prompt. Once the Group Policy Object is <br />applied, the new version of OpenOffice will be installed the next time <br />the computer is rebooted. The installation process will take several <br />minutes.</p>
<p>    Installation Troubleshooting</p>
<p>There a several methods to obtain information about the installation <br />process:</p>
<p>   1. Installation failure and success messages are logged in each<br />      computer&#39;s Application Event Log.<br />   2. Group Policy and software installation operations can also be<br />      logged. For more information, see the manual section /Logging<br />      Group Policy and/or Software Installation/.</p>
